# ecg-identifier
<h2>why this project</h2>
<p>
  According to the World Health Organization (WHO), cardiovascular diseases
(CVDs) are the number one cause of death today. Over 17.7 million people died from CVDs in the year 2017 all over the world which is about 31% of all deaths, and over 75% of these deaths occur in low and middle income countries. Arrhythmia is a representative type of CVD that refers to any irregular change from the normal heart rhythms. There are several types of arrhythmia including atrial fibrillation, premature contraction, ventricular fibrillation, and tachycardia. Although single arrhythmia heartbeat may not have a serious impact on life, continuous arrhythmia beats can result in fatal circumstances. For example, prolonged premature ventricular contraction (PVCs) beats occasionally turn into a ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation (VF) beats which can immediately lead to heart failure. Thus, it is important to periodically monitor the heart rhythms to manage and prevent the CVDs. Electrocardiogram (ECG) is a non-invasive medical tool that displays the rhythm and status of the heart. Therefore, automatic detection of irregular heart rhythms from ECG signals is a significant task in the field of cardiology.
</p>
<h2>scope of the project</h2>
<p>
  This project is intended to do ECG arrhythmia classification using a 2-D convolutional neural network in which we classify ECG into seven categories, one being normal and the other six being different types of arrhythmia using deep two-dimensional CNN with grayscale ECG images. By transforming one-dimensional ECG signals into two-dimensional ECG images, noise filtering and feature extraction are no longer required. This is important since some of ECG beats are ignored in noise filtering and feature extraction. In addition, training data can be enlarged by augmenting the ECG images using cropping techniques which results in higher classification accuracy.However, augmenting two-dimensional ECG images with different cropping methods helps the CNN model to train with different viewpoints of the single ECG images. Data augmentation is hard to be applied in 1-d signals since the distortion of 1-d ECG signal could downgrade the performance of the classifier and sometimes distort the rarely occuring ecg signals. 
</p>
